So let's use AWS Budgets.
So in the Billing Console,
on the left-hand side, you have your budgets,
and we're going to go ahead and create a budget.
So now you have a simplified view for budget setup
and you can use a template,
and some of them, for example, is zero spend budget
to notify you once you exceed the AWS Free Tier limits.
You have the monthly cost budget to create a budget
that notifies you when you approach
or exceed a specified budget.
And then you have a Daily Savings Plan coverage budget,
which is to create a coverage budget for your savings plan
that notifies you if you fall below the defined targets
of your savings plan.
So these are for templates
and they're very simple to define
and then you go ahead and create template,
but you don't have all the options of budgets.
So let's go into Customize and advanced section.
And here we have all the different kinds of budget.
So we have cost budget,
usage budget, savings plan budget, and reservation budget.
So if you go for cost budget in here,
we're going to get an idea of all the cost by month.
And this is one of my real accounts,
so you can see some actual cost in there.
So we're going to enter a budget name.
So this is a DemoBudget.
And then you look at the period for the budget.
Is it daily, monthly, quarterly, annually?
We can keep it monthly.
And is it a recurring budget,
or an expiring budget that expires at the end of the month?
So we'll have it as recurring budget.
And we'll say for example that it's a fixed budgeted method
and I enter $30 of budgeted amount per month.
So it seems like some of my month,
I was actually above my $30 budget,
and some of the other month, I was underneath.
So this is good for you to visualize
where your budget threshold is
and where your actual costs are.
You can also filter the budget scope.
So right now, it's on all AWS services.
We can filter using specific AWS cost dimension.
For example, we can look at services and we say, okay,
please only look at the EC2 instances,
and apply this filter.
So here we see that for some months,
I've had EC2 instances' cost, and for others, zero.
So we can literally filter by services.
Would it be EC2 instances or another service?
For example, you could have KMS if you're interested.
So Key Management Service.
And again, in Cost Explorer, this will reflect
the filter on the right-hand side.
But you can go even more granular
and actually have more dimensions, such as the region,
the instance type, the usage type, the tags,
the availability zones, and so on.
So you have lots of different options for your filters.
Okay, so let's have region for EU as one,
and let's apply this filter.
Okay, next we have different options.
So do you want the unblended costs
or the amortized or blended cost,
as well as the charge types?
Do you want to see all of them or also refunds and credits?
Then it's a go Next.
So then we have the budgeted amounts
and we can create budget alerts.
And this is to define when you want to get alerted
based on your budget.
And for example, you can say, when you reach 80%
of your budgeted amounts on actual value, then trigger it.
And here I would probably get a trigger
this month based on this.
And we can have email recipients for it.
So stephane@example.com would be a recipient.
Also, Amazon SNS alerts
if you want to send it into an SNS topic or Amazon Chatbots
if you wanted to send it to Amazon Chime
or Slack chat rooms of your choices
through the chatbots.
And you could have alerts for actual amounts
but also you could have alerts for 80%
of budgeted amounts of the forecast.
So when it feels like you are on track
to reach 80% of your budgeted amount,
you will also get an alert, which is nice,
because you would get the alert beforehand and so on.
So these are different alerts you can set.
And again, I will have a recipient for it.
Perfect. Let's click on Next, and Next.
And here we review everything.
So we can actually attach actions into our budgets.
So here on step four,
you can do edits and we can add an action.
So whenever an alert is being triggered, what happens?
So if I reach 80% of my actual costs,
then we can add an action
and this action will require IAM permissions to run.
So for this, we can manually create an IAM role,
which will allow budgets to run the specified actions.
So let's create a role,
and the role is for an AWS service
and that service is going to be Budgets.
And this will allow budgets
to create and manage AWS resources on our behalf.
Let's click on Next.
And then for permission policies, I will have it here.
And so we have Budget Actions with AWS Resource Access.
So I'm just going to add them both just in case
and click on Next.
So AWSBudgetActionsRole is going to be the name of my role
and we'll create this role.
So my role is now created,
and so back in here, I can refresh this, select an IAM role,
and look for the AWSBudgetActionsRole.
And now that the role is selected,
which action do we want to apply?
So if we reach the budget threshold,
then do we want to attach an IAM policy
to users, groups, or roles to restrict what they can do
so that they cannot, for example,
launch anymore EC2 instances?
Or do you want to attach a Service Control Policy
to the organization roots or a specific OU
to guardrails what an entire organization or a OU can do?
Or do you want to automatically stop EC2 instances
or RDS instances
because they may be sources of a lot of cost.
So we can stop EC2 or stop RDS in a specified region.
So this is the kind of action
that can be run out of the AWS Budgets Console.
So for now, I'm not going to have any action.
Let's click on Next and create this budget,
but at least we've seen all the options.
So now in this console, we'll see the budget itself,
the amount, the forecast,
and nice graphs about where we are versus budgeted,
or where we are versus forecasted.
Okay, so let's look at the other budgets.
So let's look at the customized advanced budget.
And here we have usage budgets.
So we can have a look at specific usages.
So if I scroll down,
I have a look at usage type group or usage type.
So we can look for example at the Data Transfer Inter AZ
and have a budget on it.
So this is the same options.
Then you can create a budget again
and this time it's going to be a Savings Plans budget.
So we can track against our specified savings plan.
So SavingsPlanDemo,
and here we can track either
within the utilization of savings plan
to make sure that we are utilizing all of it,
or the coverage to make sure
that our instance usage is covered
by the savings plan for whatever you want.
And then you can scope it to specific services as well
or filter by dimensions.
And finally, we have the reservation budgets
and this is in case you have reservations.
So reservations, which I don't have right now.
So on this dropdown here for Service, nothing will be found.
But we can track, again, a budget
against the utilization of reservations
or the coverage of reservations.
But for this, you need to have reserved instances.
So that's it. We've seen all the options for budgets.
I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.